## Q1. What is the benefit of using a library like React/Vue/Angular vs using plain old JavaScript? What is your experience level with one of those frameworks?

Software libraries are sets of tools that solve a typical problems in software development. Libraries like React/Vue/Angular solve problems typical in web and single page applications.

These libraries help teams of developers do two things that are difficult to do with plain old JavaScript. First, group the functionality of their applications in components which extend HTML, so the applications we build can grow in complexity while staying manageable; and second, organize their logic in an opinionated way, so other developers that want to contribute to their project can easily understand how to contribute.

I have worked heavily in AngularJS to build applications for eBay and Volkswagen Finance (https://www.vwfs-online.com/), and later moved to lead teams that were using Vue with Cordova. More recently, I used WeChat's mini-app framework to create applications for Porsche Club, a branch of Porsche China.

## Q2. When is CORS needed and how does it work in the browser?

(Is hard for website servers to keep track of sessions of their users due to the stateless design of HTTP. For this reason, browsers keep track of the state via cookies and send session information in headers to the server on every HTTP request.)

Information contained in HTTP request headers is used by servers to identify user sessions privately, so the browser must ensure that all requests sent to a server are from the same website as the server it is in, this is a policy called "Same origin policy". This is especially important since websites can issue AJAX requests to any destination and not directly triggered by the user.

CORS (Cross-domain resource sharing) is a way for browsers to allow websites to get around this Same origin policy and load data from other sites. The web server being called can respond with a special header ("Access-Control-Allow-Origin") to indicate to the browser that it should permit requests to be shared to from websites in other domain (or origin).

## Q3. What is an XSS attack? Explain what can lead to one and how can it be vented?

A website may display information generated by users, such as a simple comment on a textbox. Websites must be careful of rendering user-provided data, which could be interpreted by the browser as HTML that can deform their site.

As in my previous "comment textbox" example, an XSS attack occurs if a malicious user inputs text with the aim of having their comment rendered as a `<script>` tag, and having the code in the script tag change the way in which the site should behave (such as send private information to other servers).

To prevent XSS attacks the input of the users must be "sanitized", so it cannot contain any `script` tags, or so that the `script` tags are rendered in a non-harmful way.

There are two moments when sanitization of users' input can occur, either before the user input is stored or when the data is rendered as HTML output. 

## Q4. Tell us about your latest "hard to debug" problem. How did you resolve it? Which tools did you use?

Recently I faced an apparently random issue in one of our projects: some requests to our API would return a 500 error at apparently random moments. Users were seeing the issue infrequently, but it affected the homepage. There was pattern: the issue was present in two requests, one, which loaded some promotional data and other that, would show the users newsfeed: both requests were issued from the homepage. 

After some digging, I found that it was a database locking issue. I used the apache logs to diagnose the issue and `curl` to reproduce it by making two requests in quick succession.

Since we had implemented a gamification feature recently, the first users’ homepage request would write to the points table and the second read from it at almost the same time. We patched the issue by locking the points related transactions correctly. 

## Q5. Tell us about your most advanced/exciting/mind-blowing JS/CSS implementation

I am very proud of my work at eBay. While there, I worked on a project called Pulsar UI. It is similar to Google Analytics: it can show data for users to understand the traffic on eBay's multiple sites.

When I joined the team to work on their UI, and AngularJS application. The UI team had a lot of trouble handling the state of the application. They had created a lot "spaghetti" code to keep track of what the user had done and what page should be displayed. It all came crashing down when a feature for "bookmarking" was needed and it was obvious it was impossible to implement. 

I created a demo in which I restructured the project around UI Router (https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-router) and rebuilt much of the UI in a few weeks. Now, it was possible to add new pages (reports) easily and we even got to build a point and click dashboard creator.

This was exciting because I was able to help the team with their biggest bottleneck: the front-end, and the patterns I designed allowed for other team members to create new functionality in a few simple steps. Pulsar UI went from a callback mess, to become a dashboard framework with reusable components and views.

Unfortunately eBay moved on for that project, but it is still around in the original Github repository (https://github.com/pulsarIO/pulsar-reporting-ui) and published on my site as a fork (https://miguelrincon.github.io/pages/pulsar-reporting-ui/).



