Author: Miguel Rincon
miguel.rincon86@gmail.com

# Written Questions

## Q1. What is the benefit of using a library like React/Vue/Angular vs using plain old JavaScript? What is your experience level with one of those frameworks?

Software libraries are sets of tools that solve a typical problems in software development. Libraries like React/Vue/Angular solve problems typical in web and single page applications.

These libraries help teams of developers do two things that are difficult to do with plain old JavaScript. First, group the functionality of their applications in components which extend HTML, so the applications we build can grow in complexity while staying manageable; and second, organize their logic in an opinionated way, so other developers that want to contribute to their project can easily understand how to contribute.

I have worked heavily in AngularJS to build applications for eBay and [Volkswagen Finance](https://www.vwfs-online.com/), and later moved to lead teams that were using Vue with Cordova. More recently, I used WeChat's mini-app framework to create applications for Porsche Club, a branch of Porsche China.

## Q2. When is CORS needed and how does it work in the browser?

(Is hard for website servers to keep track of sessions of their users due to the stateless design of HTTP. For this reason, browsers keep track of the state via cookies and send session information in headers to the server on every HTTP request.)

Information contained in HTTP request headers is used by servers to identify user sessions privately, so the browser must ensure that all requests sent to a server are from the same website as the server it is in, this is a policy called "Same origin policy". This is especially important since websites can issue AJAX requests to any destination and not directly triggered by the user.

CORS (Cross-domain resource sharing) is a way for browsers to allow websites to get around this Same origin policy and load data from other sites. The web server being called can respond with a special header ("Access-Control-Allow-Origin") to indicate to the browser that it should permit requests to be shared to from websites in other domain (or origin).

## Q3. What is an XSS attack? Explain what can lead to one and how can it be vented?

A website may display information generated by users, such as a simple comment on a textbox. Websites must be careful of rendering user-provided data, which could be interpreted by the browser as HTML that can deform their site.

As in my previous "comment textbox" example, an XSS attack occurs if a malicious user inputs text with the aim of having their comment rendered as a `<script>` tag, and having the code in the script tag change the way in which the site should behave (such as send private information to other servers).

To prevent XSS attacks the input of the users must be "sanitized", so it cannot contain any `script` tags, or so that the `script` tags are rendered in a non-harmful way.

There are two moments when sanitization of users' input can occur, either before the user input is stored or when the data is rendered as HTML output.

## Q4. Tell us about your latest "hard to debug" problem. How did you resolve it? Which tools did you use?

Recently I faced an apparently random issue in one of our projects: some requests to our API would return a 500 error at apparently random moments. Users were seeing the issue infrequently, but it affected the homepage. There was pattern: the issue was present in two requests, one, which loaded some promotional data and other that, would show the users newsfeed: both requests were issued from the homepage.

After some digging, I found that it was a database locking issue. I used the apache logs to diagnose the issue and `curl` to reproduce it by making two requests in quick succession.

Since we had implemented a gamification feature recently, the first users’ homepage request would write to the points table and the second read from it at almost the same time. We patched the issue by locking the points related transactions correctly.

## Q5. Tell us about your most advanced/exciting/mind-blowing JS/CSS implementation

I am very proud of my work at eBay. While there, I worked on a project called Pulsar UI. It is similar to Google Analytics: it can show data for users to understand the traffic on eBay's multiple sites.

When I joined the team to work on their UI, and AngularJS application. The UI team had a lot of trouble handling the state of the application. They had created a lot "spaghetti" code to keep track of what the user had done and what page should be displayed. It all came crashing down when a feature for "bookmarking" was needed and it was obvious it was impossible to implement.

I created a demo in which I restructured the project around [UI Router](https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-router) and rebuilt much of the UI in a few weeks. Now, it was possible to add new pages (reports) easily and we even got to build a point and click dashboard creator.

This was exciting because I was able to help the team with their biggest bottleneck: the front-end, and the patterns I designed allowed for other team members to create new functionality in a few simple steps. Pulsar UI went from a callback mess, to become a dashboard framework with reusable components and views.

Unfortunately eBay moved on for that project, but it is still around in the original [Github repository](https://github.com/pulsarIO/pulsar-reporting-ui) and published on my site [as a fork](https://miguelrincon.github.io/pages/pulsar-reporting-ui/).

# Screening Call

## Screening calls questions

**Example questions include:**

### Why are you looking for a new position?

Several reasons:
1. My role is not making so much sense anymore, and my company has changed it needs. When I joined in 2017 there was an explosion of tools front-end market so joined my current job as front-end architect, to help team use/learn/drop tools. This is not the case anymore, and most the company, and the community is settles in terms of tools needed.
2. The way for me to move move forward in the company is to move to a full-time manager position, I understand this is not my career path at the moment and I want to keep growing my skills.
3. In order for me to keep growing and need to join a bigger team, where I am not just a mentor, but also a student of others. I am constantly learning, I am using books and online courses to stay updated, but this can only go so far.

### Why did you apply with GitLab?

- I have known Gitlab's product since I joined my current company about 2 years ago, I got into a CI/CD implementation right after I started and Gitlab has always helped me.
- Since then, I spent a lot of time reading about the companies values and vision and I aligned to with them. And even used many of the ideas on how to setup my own projects at the company.
- I completely connect with a few of the values: I am very comfortable in diverse environments, my friends and colleagues come from all over the world.
- As regards to remote work, I already manage most of tasks remotely with my colleagues in Europe, it is a very natural step for me.
- I got married recently and so I want to have more mobility to travel with my partner.
- The most fun I ever had was working on an open source project during my time a eBay and I would like to do it again.

### What are you looking for in your next position?

Role:
- I want to have the experience of managing myself at every step of my daily work -> even when I was a manager I sometimes lost motivation/drive to people in my team were discouraged. I want to build myself so I can later build others.
- I think there is a critical window of opportunity for me to continue on a technical path... It is time for me to go back in the technical field... as I want to continue on this track before skills begin rotting.
- I also want to expand my set of skills -> I want to participate in full stack (back-end) development.

Company-wide
- I want to work in a company that has a clear mission... and a mission that is different from "advertising", which is something most big tech companies do.

### Why did you join and leave your last three positions?

- MCON Group, eBay, Altima

- I think my big motivator has always been learning: when I am not learning I get stuck. Gitlab's approach of breadth over depth matches my interests.

- I think the exception here was eBay, when eBay stopped the Pulsar Product, I discussed with my manager and we both agreed that my role in front-end was not anymore suited. China changes quickly.

### What is your experience with X? (for each of the skills listed in the position description)

- AngularJS
- Vue
- WeChat mini program framework

So, my main experience in front-end frameworks has been with AngularJS, this is how I built Pulsar UI, the project I built with eBay. Previously I had worked with Backbone JS, which was the way got into building using Web Frameworks.

Later, I helped my team at MCON select the next generation framework... so this made me built many test projects to try each of the frameworks out. When we decided to use VueJS becuase it was easier to learn and because it originated in China, which makes it easier for use to recruit for developers.

More recently, I lead the development of WeChat mini application, and most of its fundamentals derive from Vue and React. It is an application that is built using components and pages.

### What is your current location and do you have any plans to relocate? (relevant in context of compensation, country-hiring guidelines, and in case an offer would be made)

- I am currently located in Shanghai, and I am have mid terms plans to relocate. In fact, I am looking for positions open in Amsterdam.

### Do you require visa sponsorship or a work permit to work for GitLab?

- I most probably do, however if the company doesn't have a legal entity here, it is possible for another company to hire as a third party. Additionally, in a few months I should be able to stay in China under a spouse visa.
- It depends on my setup, and I can do the research needed for this.

### What is the notice period you would need if you were hired?

- 1 month minimum according to my contract. As far as I know, doing the procedures could take about 1-2 additional weeks of onboarding.

### What are your compensation expectations?

- Frontend Engineer | Intermediate | Amsterdam | $67,096 - $70,383 (58,631 EUR - 61,503 EUR)
- Frontend Engineer | Intermediate | China | $44,100 - $46,261 (303,342 CNY - 318,206 CNY)
- Frontend Engineer* | Intermediate | Market?? | $51,429.38 USD (345,000 CNY)


## Questions to Screening Interviewer

- Mobility to other countries?
  - 6 months min. to be considered a move
- Maybe not time enough to join Gitlab Contribute...
  - Next one is  May 8th - 14th 2019! https://about.gitlab.com/company/culture/contribute/

# Technical Interview

## Technical Interview Questions

### General

Describe MVC

Can you tell me how your process is architecting things?

### JS

**What's the difference between .map and .forEach?**

- forEach() executes a function once for each array element.
- map() **Creates a new array** with the results of calling a provided function on every element in the calling array.


**Does JavaScript pass by value or by reference?**



**How to create DOM element from vanilla JS?**

**Difference between GET and POST?**

**Explain "this"?**

**What is a closure?**

**Difference from .call, .apply, .bind?**

**What is the event loop?**

**Call stack / Event loop**

**Explain event propagation and bubbling?**

**What would be a reason to use ES6 classes?**

**How to create Class methods (object.prototype)?**

**How to inherit an object from another object's prototype?**

**Function references and binding the this keyword to make the this keyword work inside the function body, i.e. in an oncl1ck event.**

**What are some major differences between ES5 and ES6**

#### Vue

**Can you explain Vue's reactivity?**

**What is the virtual DOM?**

**Vue concepts**

- vue:
  - app: new Vue({})
  - components (export default)
    - html/script/style/ together
      - v-bind
      - v-for
      - @click="$emit('event-name', eventData)"
      - v-on
      - v-model
    - script:
      - props: key-value pair with the html properties
      - data(): function returns the state
      - methods{}: obj with methods of the component
      - created(): hook
  - template directive
  - state
    - vuex state management
  - vuejs devtools
  - unit testing: Vue.nextTick

### CSS/Style

Difference between inline, inline-block, block elements?

How to select the first children of an element? How to select the odd children elements?

What does box-sizing: border-box do?

Explain absolute/relative/fixed positioning.

### Pair code challenge

Code Challenge - you have 10 minutes to build a linked list, pair program.

Some helpful functions
- Array.prototype.includes()

```
const arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
arr.includes(2); // output: true
arr.includes(7); // output: false
```

### Questions to Technical Interviewer

- Team setup
  - Must check different teams, such as Monitor, Create, ... https://about.gitlab.com/job-families/engineering/frontend-engineer/#team-specialties
- Separation between front-end and back-end, different orgs.? mobility between teams?
  - Learning track and encouraged
  - Ruby is a hard requirement? Will ask tech. manager
- Travel requirements or needs?
  - Timezone?
- Results - OKR


# Further Screening-Style Calls

### STAR questions and simple technical or skills-related questions

Situation, Task, Action, and Result (STAR)

Projects to mention:
- Pulsar: Rewrote the application in 2 weeks.
- Fairgarage: Wrote the whole thing from a book using BackboneJS.
- TimeValee pitch: Convinced a customer to take us thanks to the technical presentation.
- Porsche Club Mini Program: Succesful release under a time pressure -> iterations over big delivery.
- PEC Online booking: Revive the project from a hole using best practices, automated testing.
- VWFS Online: Remote work and diversity, convince them that another setup with possible. Innovative project for an old style company.
- Non-work: HSK

1. **Tell me about a time you had a conflict at work.** There was a disagreement with one of my designer colleagues, we had friction because her designs were not web friendly, she was designing the websites with a fixed frame and couldn't understand responsive methods. I had to undwerstand that design can be quite personal. My solution was to spend time with her and explain to her the technicalities behind responsive design, I also worked with her to create a kitchen sink or framework for the project we were working on, so the layout design was mostly left on the hands of the development team with her guidance and feedback.

2. **Can you describe a stressful situation and how you handled it?** For PEC we work in an online booking system, recently some of the bookings dissapeared and we could not find out why. Client keep calling to ask as their operations were stopped during the days that appeared booked. Initially I wanted to find the root cause, but after a few hours I decided to patch the system to increase the booking amounts, so the operations could continue. I think is sometimes important to take 5 minutes and stop to try and think clearly... and solve the problem next morning.

3. **Can you detail a mistake you made and how you reacted to it?** I think one of my mistakes had been give a raise to one of my colleagues asd a motiviation to perform. She was not doing great, but when she asked for a raise I though it was an opportunity to motivate her. That was not the case, and her performance didn't change. Later when she was leaving, I learned that she has personal issues and now I understand that I should have addressed the root cause instead of trying to motivate her with the wrong methods.

4. **Tell me about a time when you performed well under enormous pressure.** Well recently our Mini Program had to be released and my front-end collague had to leave for home. I had to finish the project by myself, and finish a lot the unfinished tasks without him. I was fortunately able to deliver on time, in part thanks to him agreeing to explain a few things durign his time off.

5. **Give me an example of a goal you met.** STAR Model Answer: I think one of the goals is to convince a new potential customer to go with us. We had spent several round of meetings with them, and then during one meeting I decided to go into the technical side... the client really connected with me. We stopped the scripted presentation and then we just went into the code of the project, he was extremely responsive and since then we were able to work together.

6. **Give me an example of a goal you couldn't meet and how you handled it.** STAR Model Answer: I hired a TPM as colleague and had really high expectations from him. However, no matter how hard I tried I was not able to sell him on my vision the team: I had a lot of ideas about automation and dockerizing a lot of our systems. Unfortunately I had too many team frictions and disagreements with him. I discussed with my manager and we decided he was not a fit for the role, unfrotunately I had to ask him to leave.

7.  **Tell me about a time when you had to placate an unsatisfied client.** STAR Model Answer: I happened to end building the internal website of our company, and the feedback from one of the partners was that the website was literally "shit". Initially I wanted him to submit bug reports... but this was not working I decided I would have a call with him to try to figure out what was wrong, and in the end, although the issues seemed major to him, they were easy to fix. The key was to do the meeting with him to sort out the issues, actually I was writing them during the meeting so he understood our process.

8.  **Have you ever had a disagreement with an immediate supervisor?** / **Describe a decision you made that wasn't popular and how you handled implementing it.**  When I started in eBay I had a difficult time adjusting to the new team. I saw the state of the UI and I knew I could produce something better... But this would mean, basically a re-write of the project, my architect of the team refused to listen to this proposal. So I decided, show and don't tell: I asked for permission to work on a PoC and spent a few days on it. He was so impressed with the concepts that he allowed me to rewrite the project gradually and we finished extremely fast with a more readable and extensible code.

9.  **Give an example of how you set goals.** Non-work example: Many of my goals are learning goals. I decided I wanted to improve my Chinese level, so instead of setting a goal like, "learn more", I signed up to the official exam. I studied a lot, during lunch, and in the mornings... and I passed! I had to set measurable example.

10. **Describe a decision you made that wasn't popular and how you handled implementing it.** Once, I inherited a group of employees when their supervisor relocated to another city. They had been allowed to cover each other’s shifts without management approval. I didn’t like the inconsistencies, where certain people were being given more opportunities than others. I introduced a policy where I had my assistant approve all staffing changes, to make sure that everyone who wanted extra hours and was available at certain times could be utilized.

11. **Give an example of how you worked on a remote team.** / **Share an example of how you were able to motivate employees or co-workers.**  I worked with the VW Financial Services team for avout a year, to build their new online platform. they were very reluctant to have remote team member, so we convinced them to give it a try with me and my colleague. I worked with them everyday and they saw the level of contribution I could give, in advice and resources was worth to have me there.

What do you expect to achieve in your first month at GitLab?

What can we change in GitLab as an organization to make it better, for example the hiring process or the handbook?

What were you most satisfied with in your recent/current position?

Gitlab values: CREDIT
- Collaboration
- Results
- Efficiency
- Diversity
- Iteration
- Transparency

Diversity built-in

Results - OKR

SMART answers

Moving from team manager to IC/member -> leadership can come naturally from skills I obtain

AIESEC

### Questions to Interviewer

- Team setup
- Mobility to other countries?
- Separation between front-end and back-end, different orgs? mobility between teams?
  - Ruby is a hard requirement?
- Travel requirements or needs?
- Maybe not time enough to join Gitlab contribute, next one is in 22 days: May 8th - 14th 2019! https://about.gitlab.com/company/culture/contribute/ ?
- OKR

### TODO

- Article about Team leader -> IC
- CI/CD Matrix on my website
- https://about.gitlab.com/company/strategy
- https://about.gitlab.com/company/culture/gitlab-101/
- https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/leadership/ Our summits link is broken... send an issue or MR.
